welcome to the man recaps this is His
Dark Materials episode 5 Lyra and the
gang are headed north to save the kids
from the gobblers they've brought some
sleds unfortunately they got a few miles
of non snow terrain to cross first but
were immediately interspaced with shots
of this totally new dude he must be the
son of Professor Gruman that lured
boreal searching for his name is will
and apparently he's in the prophecy too
he's got a big role to play
Lord boreal talks to his mom like oh I
was in the army with you all's been now
how's he doing how's the old chap but
she's like my husband's dead and is
scared of him and runs away
turns out wills mom has some problems
paranoia about men following her and
asking about her husband is actually
kind of normal it's weird that it's
happening this time Bill's a real sweet
kid he takes such good care of his mom
she runs and checks on the letters that
her husband wrote her there probably
about his traveling to other worlds and
how his son will have to follow in his
footsteps one day Lord Falls like hey
Lyra check the elite the ometer see like
what's waiting for us up ahead I wish
they went into a little more detail of
her interpretation of the symbols
because somehow from this she gets that
there's like 60 men exactly but also a
mysterious warning before you go you
have to make a detour and find a ghost
she brings this news to fodder coram but
he's like Lyra we don't have time for
side quests right now let's just stick
with the main plot okay
like any good kid Lyra knows when your
father says no you go ask your mom
father coram sneaks out at night to meet
up with his old girlfriend Serena the
winch Serafina in fact these names are
are tough he's not father coram by the
way he's farter coram which is
pronounced like a guy who farts but
spelled with a D these two were lovers
she has an age because she's a witch and
she's like hey actually I'm still into
it I like old hairy men yeah big bear
come here give mama some honey they had
a son together but he died of disease
and so these two broke up I guess anyway
she's like yeah I'll help you out but I
can't like actually stick around I got
to go do witch stuff in the morning Lord
Falls like labra I've reconsidered if
your magic golden compass is telling you
we have to do this I'd better listen to
it and she's taken her bear with her
yeah
riding through the snow this is Lyra's
dream come true Leron york bond a bit
she's a feisty little kid and he's a
grumpy old bear apparently he was a
prince
of the Bears but he was exiled because
he killed another bear probably for a
good reason though we'll see they go
down to the spooky seaside town which
would not be scary at all if it wasn't
nighttime after an incredibly long
intense horror build-up there's nothing
in the shack at all it's actually just
young Billy Costa what they found him
but wait something's wrong where's his
demon yes this confirms what we
suspected from the blueprints they are
in fact separating kids from their
demons
to what end we can only guess it's made
Billy though a total shell of a human
being he doesn't speak or anything and
very soon he just dies later that night
at the Gyptian camp people are sneaking
on in Lyra hears something and goes to
check it out and who she's gobbled up
again she's carried off two bull
Vanguard the station where they've taken
all the kids
huayra knows that she's wanted so she
gives them a fake name Lizzie Brooks
first thing they do is try to grab a pen
to see if he can change shape still it
seems it's important they cut these kids
before the demon settles down and so
Lyra is young enough they're bringing
her in how's she gonna get out of this
one
find out next time on his Dark Materials
[Music]